# Linesick DAW, a free, open-source DAW intended for Electronic Music
Linesick DAW is a DAW that is supposed to have advanced and modern features of many DAWs, and combine them all into one, along with good compatability with older methods of synthesis integrated. Though in its current state it's not visible, this will in my words be a Hybrid DAW, combining the powers of Music Trackers and Modern Modular solutions with good modulation and possibly even programming features (...though, it will be ages before that is achieved). My vision for this DAW is that it will be powerful, progressive and inventive, all while being entirely free and open-source. It will take time to fulfill this vision, especially considering I am (currently) a one-man-team, but I will try to get contribution up and running the moment I deem this project to have a clear vision and possibility. Once I get to that point though, it will be a lot easier for me, as I am unexperienced in certain fields!  
The one-man-team in question is the person writing this right now, me, my online alias smathewih. I started making this after realizing that I wasn't willing to give my money to big companies for DAWs that I could tell couldn't satisfy my needs, and especially if I wasn't willing to dump even more of my money. I tried out various software, from music trackers, to sound synthesis and altering programs, and modern, popular DAWs. I never wasted a single penny - I used exclusively the demos, or trials, if they let me see everything the software has to offer (except saving and exporting, I had to face those limitations).
## What am I looking at right now?
You're looking at an very early stage of Linesick's development, this probably shouldn't be visible to the public. This is not ready to be displayed, or rather, *I* am not ready to have this displayed, yet.  
The development of this DAW is probably at a very early stage of its life in the moment you're looking at it, and that's fine! This software is supposed to be developed relatively slowly and procedurally.  
### And the plan is?
The development plan is actually pretty simple, if you think about it:  
- I first plan on the very rough idea of what features I want my DAW to have, whether the DAW can have them, and why the DAW should have them. (*CURRENTLY IN PROGRESS*) [^1]  
- I see the prerequisites and study what I must know about them thoroughly. (*DONE[^2]*)
- I try to see if I am capable of setting up a basic project with all the prerequisites. (*CURRENTLY IN PROGRESS*[^3])  
- I make a first, very early version with essential, foundational features working (audio playback, GUI, possibly etc.). (*CURRENTLY IN PROGRESS*)
- I continue adding smaller features, testing my capabilities, until I reach a defining part of my software which will lay the foundation and limitations/possibilites of my DAW for the future, something that will be hard to make and even harder to change.
- I finish out important planning, documenting all my visions and plausible ideas, and brace myself for the years of suffering to follow.
- Some more development, until my pace slows (I burn out) and I think I'm ready (I can't take programming anymore) to release my possibly useful (and horrible broken, disorganized dumpster fire) software into the public (Github, and nowhere else).
- I set up contribution and clear out licensing concerns[^4] so I can start (stop working) collaborating (with strangers who are smarter than me, and who are possibly here to ruin my life with malicious stuff).
- Development... and the unforeseeable future!  
[^1]: I have done a part of this already, but I am still contemplating how I will execute some things, or if I should make a very convoluted and bonkers feature.  
[^2]: For now, I haven't thought much about MIDI, plugin hosting, MPE and stuff like that. I believe it won't be *that* much of a pain to implement these things in the future.  
[^3]: I'm horrendous at CMake, and I haven't incorporated Qt anywhere, so I consider this step unfinished for now.  
[^4]: The "licensing concerns" in question is me learning how licensing works anyways, and how I can set up this "contribution" collaboration, I am already worried if I fucked up some requirements of the GPL3 that I missed, and I'm worried if I'll be forgiven for this, either because stuff is still fucked up in the future, or somebody sees my past mistakes and judges me for them.  
... and that's about it! The future is very unpredictable for me at the moment, and I think I'll only stress myself more and make this impossible if I try to plan everything ahead, plus if I'd do that that'll make the project's possibilities very rigid and predictable, boring, not exciting.
## Soo, what *is* your idea concretely?
I mainly intend to program Linesick in C++, and to playback sound, I will use the free library RtSound (this is subject to change, so a sound engine backend will be implemented). Considering a modern DAW is expected to have GUI, I have to find a way of doing that as well, and I plan on using Qt, if it's not obvious, the community edition... though, my only concern is how much they are going to expect me to contribute back.  
The program should be able to eventually handle multiple clip types (whether it be piano roll, tracker track or something else), cool predefined instruments (something like builtin instrument plugins in your favorite DAWs) and effects, but also instrument graphs with many parameters, and very importantly, those which are associated with automation. Automation features would also be cool. And since I'm mentioning automation, modulation (I specifically mean the sort of thing you'd see in e.g. Bitwig) is something I really enjoy and would love to have. Very extensive behavior controls for instruments, audio handling, mixing and whatnot, control down to a sample would be really preferable. Performance and optimization is an issue, with so many features I am willing to beat stuff will get really problematic quick, but surely that's a problem for the future!...  
Customization is something I'm thinking about, but I don't know to what extent that is possible, I do believe Qt has some features for that. Not entirely sure though, maximum CSS personalization is... not something I'm dealing with. *Still would be cool though...* I mentioned tracker tracks before, and I want there to be as much compatability both for tracker-suitable workflows, and piano roll workflows, so both should have equal power and capabilities. Another cool thing I thought about is how normally notes have only some associated properties, like velocity, panning, or other stuff, but what if you could add your own, and also make them have the capability to change over time? Then, you could use that property's automated value for applying and modulating effects, and other stuff. I also thought about how cool it would be if I found a way to apply per-note effects for plugin instruments... but that's simply ludicrous! Instead, I'll think of some way to easily isolate the sound of selected notes.
I know I'm talking about this in a very convoluted way, but now I'm going to mention what clips actually are. For now, I can think of three types of clips - Piano rolls, Tracker tracks, and Automation clips. Piano rolls have a modern piano roll with automation graphically integrated as well, and tracker tracks are like a music tracker and they have automation partially graphically implemented as well, and both of these clip types send *extended note, note automation, and automation events* to the *track* in which they are contained. Automation clips are specialized clips for just automation, but they have additional features for automation variations and controls. Automation is planned to always contain a discrete target, but the track *redirects* note related events to all instruments and plugins it is "assigned to", and you can most certainly add more than one redirect! And not only that, you can automate these redirects! I think thats a neat idea, I can see my use cases for that.
This also implies instruments are separate from tracks, and that's true, and it also implies that the tracker track can't specify which instrument plays notes, which is usually common in music trackers, and that's true as well. It can seem a bit dissapointing, but if I manage to add custom note properties, you could make a custom note property to specify instrument ids, and then route the track to all instruments which can be selected, and make a check in every instrument that if the note instrument id doesn't match the instrument's id, just ignore the note.
It would also be a good time to mention how values and properties could have pretty unique data types; normal floating point numbers, integers (in various bases), fractions, etc... And the tracker track would allow you to input these values! The lanes would just widen if the value you're entering is big (in terms of characters). I miss entering precise values instead of hexadecimal values for some things in music trackers.  
I haven't thought about MIDI implementations nor plugin (CLAP, VST3, VST2, and other is forgot...) hosting, so I consider that a problem for the future me, or us.  
With the above clusterfuck of ideas and fantasies, I hopefully brainwashed you into believing any of this is possible. I know it isn't - but I'll sure as hell try out, until my PC crashes. Also, if you think I had fun writing this, just know it's 2:07 AM for me right now, and my vision is getting blotchier.  
---
Oh, also, if you're curious on my thought process when making this README, I can tell you that I'm doubtful about all of this. I am really pessimistic about this, so much so that I can basically guarantee I'll give up before I even encounter an issue. I am also incredibly tired, like I said. Half of my body is thinking about how to implement the bullcrap I just spattered, whilst the other half is tucking itself into bed, and I'm listening to Kirlian Selections to keep myself awake. I am also fully aware that if I'm really going to be putting this software out, I'm gonna have to rewrite and scrap alllll of this. I'm writing this sort of as cope that I just don't know how to make music efficiently and how I'd like it and I'm trying to justify my lack of skill. At least I'm learning how to use RtAudio, Qt, CMake and I'm learning how licensing works.  
If somebody is seriously looking back at this though, and thinking to themselves "Wow, this fucking nerd is actually a dumbass. Well, I knew that, but it's this bad?", I am seriously not taking this seriously for the pure reason that I am keeping my expectations low. Don't judge me for being unserious this early, I (believe I) can be formal. I also cope through sarcasm and (out of pocket) humor.
---
God, damn! I wrote a lot of bullshit. Hopefully one day it will be useful, so I don't have to rewrite more garbage.
## Contact
If you wish to contact the creator, me (smathewih), you can send me an E-Mail over at whatthefamidoingwithmylife69@gmail.com.  If you don't believe that is my real E-Mail address, just send me a mail and see yourself... unless my inbox gets flooded with these. If you wish to work at this with a higher degree of cooperation than just contribution, I'd recommend you to pick a more profitable life path.
